Migrate reCAPTCHA support to Google reCAPTCHA Enterprise (v2 and v3) (#24223)
keycloak/keycloak: docs/documentation/server_admin/topics/users/proc-enabling-recaptcha.adoc

Reviewer: Thanks for taking the effort to update the docs.

= Enabling reCAPTCHA

[role="_abstract"]
To safeguard registration against bots, {project_name} has integration with Google reCAPTCHA (see <<procedure_recaptcha>>) and reCAPTCHA Enterprise (see <<procedure_recaptcha_enterprise>>).
The default theme (`register.ftl`) supports both v2 (visible, checkbox-based) and v3 (score-based, invisible) reCAPTCHA (see https://cloud.google.com/recaptcha-enterprise/docs/choose-key-type[Choose the appropriate reCAPTCHA key type]).

[[procedure_recaptcha]]
== Setting up Google reCAPTCHA

. Enter the following URL in a browser:
+
[source,bash,subs=+attributes]
----
https://www.google.com/recaptcha/admin/create
----

> . Create a new reCAPTCHA and choose between Challenge v2 (visible checkbox) or Score-based, v3 (invisible) to get your reCAPTCHA site key and secret. Note them down for future use in this procedure.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Create a reCAPTCHA and choose between Challenge v2 (visible checkbox) or Score-based, v3 (invisible) to get your reCAPTCHA site key and secret. Note them down for future use in this procedure.
```

= Enabling reCAPTCHA

[role="_abstract"]
To safeguard registration against bots, {project_name} has integration with Google reCAPTCHA Enterprise.
The default theme (`register.ftl`) supports both v2 (visible, checkbox-based) and v3 (score-based, invisible) reCAPTCHA (see https://cloud.google.com/recaptcha-enterprise/docs/choose-key-type[Choose the appropriate reCAPTCHA key type]).

.Procedure
. Enter the following URL in a browser:
+
[source,bash,subs=+attributes]
----
https://www.google.com/recaptcha/admin/enterprise
----

> . Create a key for a "Website" platform, and choose the desired key type. Leave the defaults for v3 reCAPTCHA (invisible), or toggle *Use checkbox challenge* for a v2 reCAPTCHA (visible). Note the site key for future use in this procedure.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Create a key for a "Website" platform, and choose the desired key type. Leave the defaults for v3 reCAPTCHA (invisible), or enable *Use checkbox challenge* for a v2 reCAPTCHA (visible). Note the site key for future use in this procedure.
```

. Authorize Google to use the registration page as an iframe.
+
NOTE: In {project_name}, websites cannot include a login page dialog in an iframe. This restriction is to prevent clickjacking attacks. You need to change the default HTTP response headers that is set in {project_name}.
+
.. Click *Realm Settings* in the menu. 
.. Click the *Security Defenses* tab.  
.. Enter `https://www.google.com` in the field for the *X-Frame-Options* header (or `https//www.recaptcha.net` if you enabled *Use recaptcha.net*).
.. Enter `https://www.google.com` in the field for the *Content-Security-Policy* header (or `https//www.recaptcha.net` if you enabled *Use recaptcha.net*).

[[procedure_recaptcha_enterprise]]
== Setting up Google reCAPTCHA Enterprise
. Enter the following URL in a browser:
+
[source,bash,subs=+attributes]
----
https://developers.google.com/recaptcha/
----

. Create a key for a "Website" platform, and choose the desired key type. Leave the defaults for v3 reCAPTCHA (invisible), or toggle *Use checkbox challenge* for a v2 reCAPTCHA (visible). Note the site key for future use in this procedure.
+
NOTE: The localhost works by default. You do not have to specify a domain.
+

> . On your Google Cloud Project, go to *Credentials* and create a new API key.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. On your Google Cloud Project, go to *Credentials* and create an API key.
```

+
NOTE: For better security, click on *edit api key* and add an API restriction to restrict the key to the *reCAPTCHA Enterprise API* only.
+

> . Navigate to the {project_name} admin console.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Navigate to the {project_name} Admin Console.
```

. Click *Authentication* in the menu. 
. Click the *Flows* tab.
. Duplicate the "registration" flow.
. Bind the new flow to the *Registration flow*.
. Edit the new flow:
.. Delete the *reCAPTCHA* step.
.. Add the step *reCAPTCHA Enterprise* as a sub-step of "registration form" (first step of the flow).
. Set the *reCAPTCHA Enterprise* requirement to *Required*.
. Click the *gear icon* ⚙️ on the *reCAPTCHA Enterprise* row.

+
.reCAPTCHA Enterprise config
image:images/recaptcha-enterprise-config.png[]

.. Enter the *Recaptcha Project ID* of your Google Cloud console project.
.. Enter the *Recaptcha Site Key* generated at the beginning of the procedure.
.. Enter the *Recaptcha API Key* generated at the beginning of the procedure.
.. Toggle **reCAPTCHA v3** according to your Site Key type: on for score-based reCAPTCHA (v3), off for challenge reCAPTCHA (v2).

> .. (Optional) Customize the *Min. Score Threshold* as you see fit: this is the minimal score a user should achieve on reCAPTCHA to be allowed to register, between 0.0 and 1.0 (see https://cloud.google.com/recaptcha-enterprise/docs/interpret-assessment-website#interpret_scores[interpret scores]).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
.. (Optional) Customize the *Min. Score Threshold* as you see fit. Set it to the minimum score, between 0.0 and 1.0, that a user should achieve on reCAPTCHA to be allowed to register. See https://cloud.google.com/recaptcha-enterprise/docs/interpret-assessment-website#interpret_scores[interpret scores].
```
